Mian Ahmad Jan, Jinjin Cai, Xiang-Chuan Gao, Fazlullah Khan, Spyridon Mastorakis, Muhammad Usman, Mamoun Alazab, Paul Watters,
Security and blockchain convergence with Internet of Multimedia Things: Current trends, research challenges and future directions,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications,
Volume 175,
2021,
102918,
ISSN 1084-8045,
https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jnca.2020.102918.
(https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1084804520303775)
Abstract: The Internet of Multimedia Things (IoMT) orchestration enables the integration of systems, software, cloud, and smart sensors into a single platform. The IoMT deals with scalar as well as multimedia data. In these networks, sensor-embedded devices and their data face numerous challenges when it comes to security. In this paper, a comprehensive review of the existing literature for IoMT is presented in the context of security and blockchain. The latest literature on all three aspects of security, i.e., authentication, privacy, and trust is provided to explore the challenges experienced by multimedia data. The convergence of blockchain and IoMT along with multimedia-enabled blockchain platforms are discussed for emerging applications. To highlight the significance of this survey, large-scale commercial projects focused on security and blockchain for multimedia applications are reviewed. The shortcomings of these projects are explored and suggestions for further improvement are provided. Based on the aforementioned discussion, we present our own case study for healthcare industry: a theoretical framework having security and blockchain as key enablers. The case study reflects the importance of security and blockchain in multimedia applications of healthcare sector. Finally, we discuss the convergence of emerging technologies with security, blockchain and IoMT to visualize the future of tomorrow's applications.
Keywords: Internet of things; Internet of Multimedia Things; Security; Privacy; Trust; Blockchain; Convergence; Emerging applications
